Equifax.
The company whose name sounds
like a theatrical production
in which Daniel Radcliffe,
plays a horse
-that fucks a fax machine.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Now Equifax,
is one of the big three
credit reporting agencies.
The companies who keep
financial data on all of us.
So that people like uh, lenders
and landlords can decide,
whether or not
we are trustworthy.
So, Equifax controls some of our
most sensitive information
and about a month ago,
we learned this.
NEWSCASTER 1:
Breaking news from the
credit monitoring company,
Equifax.
Cyber thieves making off
with private information
of 143 million Americans,
nearly half the U.S. Population.
It's actually worse.
It's now 145 million Americans
and I have got good news
and bad news there.
The good news is that
by "private information"
they don't mean
your Google search history, so,
nobody yet knows about the time
you searched for,
"wario porn (real),"
or "world's richest dogs
looking for assistants,"
or "can loneliness
cause the farts?"
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
But the bad news is,
the information they got,
could well be all this.
NEWSCASTER 2: It's your name,
social security number,
birth date, driver's license
and addresses where you lived,
information that
is mostly permanent
unless you're in
federal witness protection.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Wow! Okay,
so, that does sound bad,
but here's a simple solution,
just move 145 million people
into the witness
protection program.
That means Jones'
uh, you are the Thompson's,
uh, Thompson's
you're the Campbell's,
Campbell's
you're the Mendoza's,
Mendoza's, you're the Jones'.
Wait-- wait hold on,
Jones' you shouldn't be there,
I made you the Thompson's.
No, Thompson's I made you
the Campbell's.
Campbell's,
you're the Mendoza's.
Mendoza's, why are you there?
You should be living
in the Jones' house in Phoenix.
Oh no, I shouldn't have
said Phoenix.
-Oh God, the Jones' are dead!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-The Jones' are dead!
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
Forget the whole plan,
I was just trying to help!
I'm sorry for trying!
Oh, they're dead!
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
-And-- and I know--
-I know there might be...
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
...some younger people
watching this
and, well hold on-- who cares?
We're the first generation
to routinely send pictures
of our junk to each other
-over the internet.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Why should we give a shit
about someone seeing
our social security numbers?
But you should know,
criminals can do a lot more
with that number
than they can with a picture
of your dick.
This information
is gonna be sold
left and right
on the black market.
People are gonna be
able to open up credit cards
for the rest of your life
once they have that information.
They can go out and purchase
a home in your name.
They can open bank accounts,
take car loans.
Someone who has your
social security number
could actually take a job,
they could file taxes
and even claim
your kids as dependents
and be gone with your refund
before you ever actually file
a tax return.
No! No!
No, the tax benefit,
is the whole point
of having children.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Without that,
all you're left with
is your actual children.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Which, you know...
-Ugh!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
The point here is,
it's a huge problem
and in any other era,
this would've been
the biggest news story
for a month, but--
but now that
every day's headline
is simply the words,
"Everything batshit
bananas again today,"
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-it slipped under the radar,
but it is worth asking,
"How the hell did this happen?"
Because the short answer is,
the people in-charge have done
literally everything wrong.
And let's start with just--
just the way that Equifax
told us about the hack.
In early September,
their then CEO, Rick Smith,
a man with a face and name
so bland
he may as well be called,
"Human Person,"
or "Frasier re-run."
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-He issued a taped apology,
but his remorse seemed a little
less than heart felt.
On July 29th of this year,
we discovered that attackers
had gained unauthorized access
to certain Equifax data files.
This is clearly
a disappointing event
and one that strikes
at the heart...
of who we are
and what we do.
-Holy shit!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Rick Smith is so
alarmingly mechanical
you probably have to put him
in rice every time he gets wet.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Now, notably
he mentioned there that Equifax
learned about the breach
on July 29th,
but even more notably that video
was uploaded in September,
which is, and this is true,
after July.
So, Equifax
knew about the breach
for nearly six weeks
before telling the public
and they claim
that they needed that time
because the investigation was
"complex and time consuming."
Although, that's not all
that happened in that time span.
NEWSCASTER 3: Three Equifax
executives
sold nearly two million dollars
in company stock,
days after the data breach
was discovered.
Wow!
Selling stock before the public
knows there's a problem
is one of those thing
that looks suspicious
whether or not you're
actually doing something wrong.
It's like, walking
into a petting zoo,
with a bib on.
What exactly are you planning
-on messily devouring in there?
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And Equifax defended
that saying,
none of the executives
in question
including their
Chief Financial Officer
knew about the data breach,
which raises another question,
-"How is that even possible?"
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Did they just ignore emails
with the subject lines,
"Breach!"
"Following up on breach!"
"Where the fuck are you?
Breach, breach, breach!"
And, "Just spoke to you
in person about breach
and you just stared blankly
at me, and then said,
'I'm gonna order
from the salad place.'"
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And if you are getting
frustrated already
with this kind of incompetence,
you're gonna need
to pace yourself,
because this story,
gets a lot worse.
Apparently,
there were multiple points
where this hack
could have been prevented
and one of them is incredible,
because Equifax were alerted
by Homeland security,
back in March,
that they needed to fix
a critical vulnerability
in their software.
But as lawmakers discovered
at a recent hearing,
that's not what happened.
There was one person apparently,
who forgot to tell somebody
that they had a piece
of software
that needed to be patched.
Yeah, it is not ideal,
that a company guarding
such valuable information
leaves something that important
down to one person.
It's like finding out
that Chase Bank
has a big red button labeled,
"Lose everyone's money,
and the only thing
stopping anyone from pushing it,
-is Frank."
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And look, I love Frank.
I love the guy,
but what if he has to pee?
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
A-- and I want to tell you
that this is an anomaly,
but Equifax has had multiple
headline-grabbing breaches
over the years,
and that is not even counting
smaller incidents like this.
I checked my credit report
the other day
online with Equifax...
That was it, and next thing
I know I have 300 pieces of mail
sittin' in my mailbox.
NEWSCASTER 4: Every single one
of these is addressed to her,
but they're not hers.
Instead, she got
other people's credit reports.
Now, names,
social security numbers,
dates of birth, current
and previous addresses
bank and loan account numbers,
all stacked up
on a kitchen table in Biddeford.
-(AUDIENCE GROANING)
-Yeah, I mean,
that not great, is it?
And it really should have
set off red flags at Equifax,
when hundreds of different
credit reports
were being mailed
to the same address.
What exactly did you think
had happened there
that every single Fraggle
checks their credit at once,
down at Fraggle Rock?
-Down at Fraggle Rock?
-(AUDIENCE CLAPPING)
-Now-- very nice.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-And--
And I know that other companies
have had breaches
but none remotely as damaging
as this new Equifax one,
'cause remember,
this isn't Target
exposing
customer's credit cards.
This is compromising
social security numbers
the things that thieves
could use
to open new credit cards
in your name
and if your information
was stolen, which remember,
is about a 50-50 chance,
it could haunt you forever.
You don't change
your birth date,
you don't change your
social security number.
Those who've been, uh,
jeopardized by this hack
will have to protect themselves
for years, until they're dead.
It's true and just
think about that.
There is only one other thing
that you have to
constantly protect yourself from
until you're dead.
-And that's fucking death!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And you would hope that Equifax
would do a decent job
of mitigating the damage.
After all,
they did have nearly six weeks
to work on a response,
but instead,
their fuck ups continued.
For instance, they created
a website
for concerned consumers
to go to,
but then this happened:
The site that Equifax started
is called Equifax Security 2017.
But a developer named
Nick Sweeting,
wanted to show,
how easy it is
to create a similar fake site,
so he did.
He called it,
Security Equifax 2017.
(AUDIENCE GROANING)
Exactly, someone created
a fake site
and if you're thinking,
"Well, who would be dumb enough
to fall for that?"
Equifax! That's who!
Because they tweeted links
to that fake site
at least eight times!
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING
IN DISBELIEF)
Despite the fact that site had
a couple of tiny clues
that it might be fake
from the headline reading,
"Why did Equifax use a domain
that's so easily impersonated
by phishing sites?"
to the fact that when you
clicked on their
Frequently Asked Questions,
this happened.
♪ ("NEVER GONNA GIVE YOU UP"
BY RICK ASTLEY PLAYING) ♪
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING
AND CHEERING)
Well played pranksters,
you have my respect.
But look, don't worry.
Equifax says that they are
tightening up their operation.
And to see how well
that they've done on that,
You-- you can just go to,
equifaxfraudprevention.com,
not because it's their site
but because it's our site.
We bought it two days ago,
and if you'll go there
you'll find the message,
"How were we still able
to do this?
Why haven't you learned
anything?"
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
But wait-- wait!
Because there is even more.
'Cause Equifax
also offered consumers
a year of free credit monitoring
but when people tried to sign-up
for the service,
they noted something.
Guess what? You lock into
Equifax terms of service
-when sign-up for it,
-Ah!
which means that you
can't sue the company.
You've gotta resolve any
disputes in forced arbitration.
Exactly! You'll be giving up
your right to sue.
So legally, your best recourse
at that point would be,
shaking your fist at the heavens
while shouting, "Equifax!"
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Now, they-- they've since
rescinded that clause,
although many frustrated people
are now signing up
for third party credit
monitoring services like,
LifeLock, who've been
advertising everywhere.
And they've seen a real surge
in business
in the wake
of this breach, although,
if you're considering LifeLock
because you are mad at Equifax,
there is something
you're gonna need to know.
According to filings
with the SCC,
LifeLock purchases
credit monitoring services from
-Equifax.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING NERVOUSLY)
And that means someone buys
credit monitoring
through LifeLock.
LifeLock turns around
and passes some of that revenue
directly along to Equifax.
Is that right Mr. Smith?
That is correct.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING
IN DISBELIEF)
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-It's true. Some of--
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
some of the money that you pay
to LifeLock
goes right back
to fucking Equifax,
which could only be
more infuriating
if you then found out that
the rest of it goes
to Toys For Todds.
A charity that purchases
sex toys
-for grown men named Todd.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Buy your own sex toys Todd,
we can't carry you on this one.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And look, Equifax
connections aside,
LifeLock has had
repeated issues itself,
including settlements
with the FTC
and a truly disastrous
ad campaign
a few years back.
I'm Todd Davis,
and I'm here
to prove just how safe
your identity can be
with LifeLock.
That's my real
social security number.
Yeah, LifeLock's then-CEO
Todd Davis,
actually put his real
social security number,
457-55-5462,
on a truck and billboards.
For a time, it was impossible
to escape
his social security number,
-457-55-5462.
-(AUDIENCE CHUCKLING)
And that was a very cocky move
and one that resulted in him
having his identity stolen
-13 times.
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
And I'm guessing,
that the defense
for the people who took it was,
"I didn't steal his identity
I literally got it off
the back of a truck."
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-So, to put it mildly,
LifeLock, may not be your
best solution
to the Equifax crisis,
which brings us to the question,
"What is?"
Well, consumer advocates told us
that the one big step
everyone should take,
is to go through all three large
credit reporting companies,
that's Equifax, Experian
and TransUnion,
and freeze your credit.
That way no one can access it,
including you,
until you unfreeze it.
Now the companies also offer
their own credit protection
products,
with names like, Trusted ID
or Credit Lock Plus.
But, they are
often more expensive
and offer fewer
consumer protection.
So, if you need a way
to remember this,
locks, are something
you don't want.
Think of Justin Bieber's
dreadlocks.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-A terrible decision
to be avoided!
Whereas freezes are great.
Uh, think of this tiny penguin
losing its frozen mind.
♪ (UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING) ♪
See! So, to recap,
-locks, oof, freezes, wee!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
Now-- now, here is the thing--
here's the thing on this.
Freezing and unfreezing
of your credit can cost money
which will go back to these
companies, because seemingly,
they just can't
fucking lose on this.
And if you need any more
proof of that,
on the very same day
that Congress was yelling at
Equifax's former CEO,
it emerged that the company
had just been awarded
a seven-million-dollar contract
by the IRS, to prevent fraud,
which led one senator to make
a pretty brutal comparison.
You realize, to many Americans
right now, that looks like uh...
we're giving Lindsay "Lohawn"
the keys to the mini bar.
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING IN SHOCK,)
APPLAUDING)
I understand your point.
That was the pause of man
thinking, "Do I let that pass?"
"Do I correct him
on how to pronounce Lohan?"
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Or do I double down
and pronounce her name,
"Lingonberry Lahoni Baloney."
(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And you should know--
you should know
that IRS deal
has been suspended,
not cancelled by the way,
just suspended.
And that might make you angry
but the problem is,
that anger won't have
much impact on Equifax.
Because they make
most of their money
selling our data to businesses,
like banks.
So, in their eyes,
we are not the consumer,
we're the product.
To think of it in terms of KFC.
We are not the guy buying
the ten-piece buckets,
-we're the fucking chickens!
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
So, for the time being,
businesses are the only ones
who can exert influence here
and as one colorfully dressed
expert pointed out,
that's not gonna happen
anytime soon.
I haven't heard any big company
came out-- come out yet
and say, "We're not gonna use
Equifax anymore"
-for their credit scores.
-STUART VARNEY: Good point.
So far, everybody's been quiet,
and I don't know what they're
waiting to hear.
This is outrageous,
they should be done
but I bet you,
because it's America,
they'll be okay.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-Here's the truth,
that angry business casual
farm animal on Fox Business
-is talking sense.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
And that sentence alone
shows just how bad things are.
So, in the long term,
there should clearly be
major reform to this industry
and how it's regulated,
but that is going to take time,
so until then
you need to freeze
your credit reports
with all three
of these companies,
and only unfreeze them
when you need to apply
for credit.
And because the freeze option
can be hard to find
on their sites
if you go to our twitter feed,
we will give you exact links
to do that, and when you do,
they will give you a PIN number
that you need to unfreeze it.
So, do not lose that number,
or at the very least,
make it something memorable.
I don't know, like...
-457-55-5462.
-(AUDIENCE LAUGHING)
-(AUDIENCE APPLAUDING)
-But not that, 'cause of course
that's Todd Davis's
social security number.